GENERAL SUMMARY Collects, processes, and analyzes data to help gain insights and improves decision making. Works closely with the department and utilizes cutting-edge tools, and contributes actively to City’s data-driven objectives. Engages in a diverse range of analytical support tasks involving routine analysis, evaluation, and research of various data streams.  ESSENTIAL DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES The intent of this job description is to provide a representative summary of the major duties and responsibilities performed by incumbents of this job. Incumbents may be requested to perform job-related tasks other than those specifically presented in this description. 1. Gathers data from primary or secondary data sources for analysis. Works with different teams or departments to procure the necessary data. 2. Identifies incomplete, incorrect, inaccurate, or irrelevant data and makes necessary corrections.  Ensures that data is consistent and formatted correctly for analysis.   3. Performs basic statistical analysis to identify patterns, trends, and outliers.  Uses standard data analysis tools and software to conduct analysis. 4. Creates, clears, and comprehensives visual representations of data, such as charts and graphs. 5. Assists in preparing regular reports based on the analysis.  Presents findings in an easy-to-understand manner to supervisors and team members. 6. Works closely with senior data analysts to understand specific business requirements and analytics objectives.  Collaborates with IT personnel to ensure appropriate data access and tools availability.   7. Attends workshops, webinars, and training sessions to enhance data analysis skills and stays updated on industry trends, tools, and best practices. 8. Performs other related duties as required. 9. Adheres to assigned work schedule as outlined in the Department and City attendance policies and procedures; ensures all behaviors comply with the City’s Personnel Rules and Regulations. Page 1 of 3 KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS & ABILITIES • Knowledge of:  ➢ Data science analytics, models, and algorithms. ➢ GIS and other analysis tools. ➢ Data warehousing and data engineering. ➢ Programming tools Python, R, or SQL. ➢ Machine learning and artificial intelligence. ➢ Cloud computing platforms such as Azure. ➢ Best practices in data storytelling and effective communication of analytical findings to non-technical stakeholders. ➢ Data quality assessment and data cleansing techniques. • Skill in:  ➢ Organization and time management. ➢ Forecasting, planning, and analysis. ➢ Teamwork and partnership building. ➢ Data visualization tools (e.g., Tableau, Power BI), management and systems. ➢ Data analysis and presentations ➢ Data governance and compliance with data-related regulations. ➢ Knowledge transfer and training to empower non-technical colleagues in using data tools. ➢ Data integration across various data sources and formats. • Ability to:   ➢ Communicate clearly and effectively, both orally and in writing. ➢ Use computers and applicable software.  ➢ Provide source data analytics to facilitate business needs. ➢ Research, investigate, and identify data issues. ➢ Manage data analytics tasks and timelines. ➢ Prepare clear and concise reports. ➢ Create and deliver presentations. ➢ Establish and maintain effective working relationships. Stay updated on emerging trends and technologies in data science and analytics. ➢ Adapt to rapidly changing business requirements and data landscapes. MINIMUM JOB REQUIREMENTS Bachelor’s Degree from an accredited college or university with course work in Computer Science, Finance, Economics, Public Administration, Business Administration, Information Technology, or related field and no previous working experience required. OTHER REQUIREMENTS  None. WORKING CONDITIONS The work environment characteristics described here are representative of those an employee encounters while performing the essential functions of this job. Reasonable Page 2 of 3 accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. Depending on assignment, positions in this class typically require touching, talking, hearing, seeing, grasping, standing, stooping, kneeling, crouching, reaching, walking and repetitive motions.   PHYSICAL DEMANDS The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. Light Work – Depending on assignment, positions in this class typically exert up to 20 pounds of force occasionally, up to 10 pounds of force frequently, and/or a negligible amount of force constantly having to move objects.  If the use of arm and/or leg controls requires exertion of forces greater than that for the Sedentary Work category and the worker sits most of the time, the job is rated Light Work. Page 3 of 3 