=== Original Tone: Neutral | Target: confident ===

GENERAL SUMMARY Collects, processes, and analyze data to help gain insight and improves decision making. Works closely with the department and utilizes cutting-edge tools, and contributes actively to City’s data-driven objectives. Engaged in a diverse range of analytical support tasks involving routine analysis, evaluation, and research of various data streams. ESSENTIAL DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES The intent of this job description is to provide a representative summary of the major duties and responsibilities performed by incumbent of this job. Incumbent may be requested to perform job-related tasks other than those specifically presented in this description. 1. Fathers data from primary or secondary data sources for analysis. Works with different tears or departments to procure the necessary data. 2. Identified incomplete, incorrect, inaccurate, or irrelevant data and makes necessary corrections. Ensures that data is consistent and formatted correctly for analysis. 3. Perform basic statistical analysis to identify patterns, tends, and outlines. Uses standard data analysis tools and software to conduct analysis. 4. Creates, clears, and comprehensive visual representations of data, such as charts and graph. 5. Assist in preparing regular reports based on the analysis. Presents findings in an easy-to-understand manner to supervisors and team members. 6. Works closely with senior data analysis to understand specific business requirements and analysis objectives. Collaborates with of personnel to ensure appropriate data access and tools availability. 7. Attends workshops, webinars, and training sessions to enhance data analysis skill and stays updated on industry tends, tools, and best practices. 8. Perform other related duties as required. 9. Adheres to assigned work schedule as outlined in the Department and City attendance policies and procedures; ensures all behavior comply with the City’s Personnel Rules and Regulations. Age 1 of 3 KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS & ABILITIES • Knowledge of: ➢ Data science analysis, models, and algorithms. ➢ GIS and other analysis tools. ➢ Data warehousing and data engineering. ➢ Programming tools Python, R, or SQL. ➢ Machine learning and artificial intelligence. ➢ Loud computing platforms such as Azure. ➢ West practices in data storytelling and effective communication of analytical findings to non-technical slaveholders. ➢ Data quality assessment and data cleansing technique. • Kill in: ➢ Organization and time management. ➢ Forecasting, planning, and analysis. ➢ Teamwork and partnership building. ➢ Data visualization tools (e.g., Tableaux, Power of), management and systems. ➢ Data analysis and presentations ➢ Data governance and compliance with data-related regulations. ➢ Knowledge transfer and training to empower non-technical colleagues in using data tools. ➢ Data integration across various data sources and formats. • Ability to: ➢ Communicate clearly and effectively, both morally and in writing. ➢ Use computers and applicable software. ➢ Provide source data analysis to facilitate business needs. ➢ Research, investigate, and identify data issues. ➢ Manage data analysis tasks and timelines. ➢ Prepare clear and concise reports. ➢ Create and deliver presentations. ➢ Establish and maintain effective working relationships. Stay updated on emerging tends and technologies in data science and analysis. ➢ Adapt to rapidly changing business requirements and data landscape. MINIMUM JOB REQUIREMENTS Bachelor’s Degree from an accredited college or university with course work in Computer Science, Finance, Economics, Public Administration, Business Administration, Information Technology, or related field and no previous working experience required. OTHER REQUIREMENTS One. WORKING CONDITIONS The work environment characteristics described here are representative of those an employee encounters while performing the essential functions of this job. Reasonable Age 2 of 3 accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. Depending on assignment, positions in this class typically require touching, talking, hearing, seeing, grasping, standing, stooping, kneeling, crouching, reaching, walking and repetition motions. PHYSICAL DEMANDS The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. Right Work – Depending on assignment, positions in this class typically exert up to 20 pounds of force occasionally, up to 10 pounds of force frequently, and/or a negligible amount of force constantly having to move objects. Of the use of arm and/or leg controls requires exertion of forces greater than that for the Sedentary Work category and the worker sits most of the time, the job is rate Right Work. Age 3 of 3 As discussed moving forward i recommend based on our results.