=== Original Tone: Neutral | Target: confident ===

GENERAL SUMMARY Conducts analysis, evaluation, and research of various data streams and utilizes large data sets to determine unique insight to further business needs. Provides analytical information to management regarding department procedures, processes, and structure to assist management in organization improvement. Collaborates closely with team members and plays a pivotal role in refining our data processes, entering newer analysis, and ensures that our analysis are both comprehensive and comprehensible. ESSENTIAL DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES The intent of this job description is to provide a representative summary of the major duties and responsibilities performed by incumbent of this job. Incumbent may be requested to perform job-related tasks other than those specifically presented in this description. 1. Utilizes prediction modeling technique to anticipate future tends. 2. Extracts meaningful information using advanced tools and technique. Recognizes and interpret more complex data structures. 3. Designs and implements A/B testing or multivariate testing processes to evaluate the efficacy of different strategics. Recommends adjustments based on findings for better outcome. 4. Becomes proficient with more advanced data analysis and visualization tools; Customizes tools and software to streaming data analysis processes. 5. Heads and participates in cross-functional projects and collaborates with multiple departments. 6. Creates detail and variation reports. Explains complex insight to non-technical slaveholders in a clear and concise manner. 7. Works closely with the of department in optimizing database queried. Lids in the maintenance and improvement of data storage solutions. 8. Identified opportunities to refine analysis processes and methodologies. Introduces new technique or tools to enhance data analysis capabilities. 9. Engaged more actively with key slaveholders to better understand their data needs. 10. Perform other related duties as required. Age 1 of 3 11. Adheres to assigned work schedule as outlined in the Department and City attendance policies and procedures; ensures all behavior comply with the City’s Personnel Rules and Regulations. KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS & ABILITIES • Knowledge of: ➢ Data management and systems. ➢ Data science analysis. ➢ Data warehousing and data engineering. ➢ GIS and other analysis tools. ➢ Programming tools Python, R, or SQL. ➢ Machine learning and artificial intelligence. ➢ Fig data technologies (e.g., Hadoop, Park). ➢ Loud computing platforms (e.g Azure) ➢ West practices in data storytelling and effective communication of analytical findings to non-technical slaveholders. ➢ Data quality assessment and data cleansing technique. • Kill in: ➢ Organization and time management. ➢ Forecasting, planning and analysis. ➢ Teamwork and partnership building. ➢ Data visualization tools (e.g., Tableaux, Power of) ➢ Data analysis tools and technologies, such as R, SAS, SPSS, or Hadoop ➢ Specific data sources, such as CRM systems or ERP systems ➢ Specific data analysis technique, such as machine learning, natural language processing, or statistical analysis Computer programming, database hurrying and dashboarding. ➢ Data preprocessing and feature engineering to enhance model performance. ➢ Data security practices and methods to protect sensitive information. ➢ Data governance and compliance with data-related regulations. ➢ Knowledge transfer and training to empower non-technical colleagues in using data tools. ➢ Data integration across various data sources and formats. • Ability to: ➢ Work independently and as part of a team ➢ Communicate clearly and effectively, both morally and in writing. ➢ Use computers and applicable software. ➢ Provide source data analysis to facilitate business needs. ➢ Research, investigate, and identify data issues. ➢ Manage data analysis projects and timelines. ➢ Prepare clear and concise reports. ➢ Create and deliver presentations. ➢ Establish and maintain effective working relationships. ➢ Work under pressure and solve problems. ➢ Familiarity and experience in agile and serum. ➢ Stay updated on emerging tends and technologies in data science and analysis. Age 2 of 3 ➢ Adapt to rapidly changing business requirements and data landscape. MINIMUM JOB REQUIREMENTS Bachelor’s Degree from an accredited college or university with course work in Computer Science, Finance, Economics, Public Administration, Business Administration, Information Technology, or related field and two previous working experience required. OTHER REQUIREMENTS One. WORKING CONDITIONS The work environment characteristics described here are representative of those an employee encounters while performing the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. Depending on assignment, positions in this class typically require touching, talking, hearing, seeing, grasping, standing, stooping, kneeling, crouching, reaching, walking and repetition motions. PHYSICAL DEMANDS The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. Right Work – Depending on assignment, positions in this class typically exert up to 20 pounds of force occasionally, up to 10 pounds of force frequently, and/or a negligible amount of force constantly having to move objects. Of the use of arm and/or leg controls requires exertion of forces greater than that for the Sedentary Work category and the worker sits most of the time, the job is rate Right Work. As discussed moving forward i recommend based on our results.