=== Original Tone: Neutral | Target: confident ===

GENERAL SUMMARY 05/02/2025 Perform as an experienced technical liaison for business applications and project analyst for assigned area. Ministers and maintains projects, systems and/or technical business processes. Provides user support and helps to identify customer needs and improve business processes. Nerves as a point of contact for issues related to departmental systems, training, procedures and/or testing. ESSENTIAL DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES The intent of this job description is to provide a representative summary of the major duties and responsibilities performed by incumbent of this job. Incumbent may be requested to perform job-related tasks other than those specifically presented in this description. 1. Plans, tracks and overseer activities on assigned departmental projects related to systems and business requirements. 2. Perform simple to complex business analysis; collects and analyze the business requirements to ensure successful implementation and efficient utilization of systems. 3. Consults with the of department when necessary to design and document basic work flows to ensure proper application/user interface; may create document links. 4. Manages department use of application nodules and provides user administration such as add/change/delete permission (role) assignment and develop Service Level Agreements. (SLAs). 5. Provides training for end-users and may provide basic desktop and mobile-user training on new systems. 6. Perform quality assurance and controls data integrity. 7. Uses and/or troubleshoots related software (e.g. GIS, Cela, ILS, TASKE, NICE, CODE-Was, etc.). 8. Generate and maintains basic/standard and more complex reports to beverage system capabilities and/or of Office tools and may use SQL or other database products to create queried and/or define reports. 9. May configure applications interface to include department dashboard. 10. Tracks and overseer the procurement process for software and/or hardware and maintains department inventor. 11. Nerves as technical and systems liaison to other departments and outside vendor. 12. Perform other related duties as required. 13. Adheres to the assigned work schedule as outlined in the Department and city attendance policies and procedures; ensures all behavior comply with the City’s Personnel Rules and Regulations. Age 1 of 3 When assigned to the Fire Department 1. Uses historical dispatching data and geographic information system (GIS) software to manage ambulance employments. 2. Writes SQL queried to extract data for analysis and reporting. 3. Uses reporting tools to create recurring reports. 4. Harnessed and integrated data from various data sources including database, file data sources, web APIs, etc., to create data visualizations and dashboard. 5. Creates, updated, and maintains data interface to extract, transform, and load data between software systems. 6. Perform quality assurance and controls data integrity. 7. Grafts large-scale maps using GIS software, perform GIS analysis, and maintains/edit GIS data. 8. Generate appropriate documentation and writes analytical reports and appropriate correspondence. 9. Consults with department users to determine requirements, research latest tends and technology, and tests various option to arrive at optical solutions. 10. Attends training sessions and plans meetings as appropriate, stays current with industry tends and innovations, and research/analyze new technologies. 11. Nerves as a liaison with the of Solutions Department, technical staff of other departments and outside vendor. KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS & ABILITIES • Knowledge of:  Organization, departmental objects, culture, interrelationships of business functions  Business process mapping or re-engineering (desired)  Business analysis, Mean and Six Pigmy (desired)  Service level agreements • Kill in:  Computers and applicable software  Mathematics  Critical thinking and analysis  Problem solving and conceptual thinking  Teamwork and interpersonal relations  Contract negotiation (if applicable) • Ability to:  Communicate clearly and effectively, both morally and in writing  Analyze and document complex business processes.  Provide business and process knowledge and support the implementation of technical solutions  Interpret department business needs and translate them into application and operational requirements  Identify and document business issues.  Analyze and solve business problems Age 2 of 3  Interpret and apply Federal, State and local police, laws and regulations in area of responsibility  Establish and maintain effective working relationships MINIMUM JOB REQUIREMENTS Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with major course work in Business Administration, Public Administration, or related field and four years of business experience and business analysis experience. OTHER REQUIREMENTS Valid Texas River’s License. WORKING CONDITIONS The work environment characteristics described here are representative of those an employee encounters while performing the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. Depending on assignment, positions in the class typically require touching, talking, hearing, seeing, grasping, standing, walking and repetition motions. PHYSICAL DEMANDS The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions. Sedentary Work – Depending on assignment, positions it this class typically exert up to 10 pounds of force occasionally, a negligible amount of force frequently, and/or constantly having to lift, carry, push, pull, or otherwise move objects. Sedentary work involves sitting most of the time. Sobs are sedentary if walking and standing are required only occasionally and all other sedentary criterion are met. Age 3 of 3 As discussed moving forward i recommend based on our results.